You've probably already heard by now
that the Hermes agent is the most
powerful personal agent around and
that's not wrong. It actually has
numerous features that make it so much
better than Open Claw. But what happens
when you connect it to one of the most
powerful coding agents out there, Claude
Code? On its own, Claude Code is great,
but it's missing one crucial part from
the Hermes agent, the self-evolving
skill system. Paired with that, you can
create workflows that are so much more
autonomous, even for things that we
didn't think could be automated. But
other than as a personal agent, you can
set it for any business that wants to
automate their processes and it's really
simple. But since a lot of you might be
new to the Hermes agent, you don't need
to worry as we're going to guide you
through it. But before we get into the
setup, let's start with why the
self-evolving skill system matters in
the first place. When we came across it,
we figured it might actually be better
than Open Claw. It wasn't just some
random project. It's actually built by
Nous Research, one of the leading labs
in open-source AI and it has become one
of their most popular projects. Also,
here's something interesting. The Hermes
agent was actually built before Open
Claw. It just didn't get much hype at
first. The people over at Nous Research
also tried Open Claw, but they ran into
issues with it, so they switched to
their own setup. They saw its problems
firsthand and open-sourced their
solution. Most of the features Hermes
has are the same as Open Claws. Just
like Open Claw, you can connect it to
multiple platforms, but there are two
things that make it so much better. The
first is persistent memory and the
second is self-improving skills. Open
Claw already has persistent memory,
which lets it remember information about
you and shape its to what you like, but
that has its limits, too. Hermes goes
further. It saves those memories and
whenever it finds a reusable workflow in
your chats, it turns it into a skill.
Hermes' persistent memory is built on a
really smart setup. Hermes puts a limit
on how large the user.md and memory.md
files can be. As you're chatting with
the Hermes agent, it keeps updating
those files after each run. Now, why
does that limit matter? It's because of
how models work. Just like you, a model
also has a really bad attention span. It
can only focus on a limited amount of
information at a time, and it gets
confused when it's given a lot of
information. And all that information,
from the prompts and tools to the system
instructions, and on top of that your
own files, is fighting for the model's
attention in the context window. So, the
more you fit into that context, the more
the model loses focus on the actual task
because all the extra information
becomes noise to the agent. So, that
token limit is there to prevent this
from happening. Once Hermes hits the
token limit on the files, the model goes
through them and cuts out anything that
isn't useful. It holds the newest
information in memory, so the agent
isn't distracted by old details you
don't need anymore. Open Claw doesn't do
any of this. It just lets the memory
keep growing. There's another issue we
faced with Open Claw. To secure it, we
had to sandbox the agent ourselves.
Hermes runs in a sandbox on its own.
That means it runs in an isolated
environment where it can't reach things
it shouldn't or accidentally do
something it isn't supposed to. So, it
gets rid of most of the security
problems Open Claw had. And if you want
to run Hermes with a Claude code setup,
now's the best time to do it because
greedy little Dario discovered another
way to make money off Claude by starting
to charge for using your Claude
subscription with third-party
applications. After June 15th, you won't
be able to use your Claude code
subscription to run agents like Hermes
for free. You'll have to pay Anthropic
extra. Your plan will include a monthly
agent SDK credit, and that credit gets
spent whenever you connect a third-party
app through your subscription. The same
limit applies to running Claude in
non-interactive mode, which is the mode
a lot of agents use to run Claude code
in the background without needing any
permission prompts. So, until June 15th,
you can keep running the Hermes agent
without the ridiculous API costs. Now,
setting up the Hermes agent is actually
pretty simple. You just copy the install
command and run it in your terminal. It
first installs all the dependencies it
needs, then runs the installer in
interactive mode. If you want to set the
agent up on the News Plan where you get
their models and built-in tools, you can
go for it. But, we wanted our own setup,
so we went with the manual option. You
can also reconfigure the agent later on
using the Hermes setup command. This
step is where you set up everything the
agent needs. Hermes can import from your
previous OpenClaw settings, so it first
asks whether you want to bring those
over. You can check for yourself exactly
what gets brought over, which covers
your user profile and credentials along
with your skills and your soul file,
which is basically the agent's
personality and instructions. But, just
like how your bloodline's been passing
down that amazing height for
generations, inheriting from one agent
to another comes with its own issues.
The login details you bring over still
point to the same channels your OpenClaw
agent used, and the files OpenClaw
relied on don't carry over cleanly
because those instructions were written
specifically for OpenClaw. So, importing
them just causes problems, and that's
why we chose not to import ours. After
that, you choose which model Hermes
uses. We wanted it on Claude models
through the Anthropic subscription, but
when we tried it, we couldn't actually
use the Claude models and got an error.
Turns out Dario was already asking us to
set up that extra usage even though it's
not June 15th yet. So, that policy might
already be rolling out gradually, but it
might still work for you. Either way, we
could still use Claude code in
non-interactive mode right now, which is
what we'll be using for most of our
tasks anyway, and you can change your
model provider anytime later on. Once
the model is set, it asks where the
agent will actually run, whether that's
on hosting or a VPS you've set up. And
for those of you who don't know, a VPS
is basically a server you rent and run
yourself. But, since we have Mac minis
running entirely for this, we went with
the local option. And no, we weren't the
ones who caused the Mac mini shortage
because unfortunately, just like you,
our AI B2B SaaS business actually ran
out of funding. After that, it asks you
to connect whichever messaging platform
you want. We chose Discord, but you can
connect any of them. We won't walk
through the Discord bot setup here, but
you'll find the full instructions in our
community AI Labs Pro. Once that's done,
it asks a few more questions, and your
agent is ready. You just type Hermes,
and once the UI loads, you can start
chatting with the agent right there. In
order to tailor itself to what you
actually need, it needs information
about you. So, you can either keep using
it for a month and let it figure you out
on its own, or just tell it who you are
up front before it touches any other
task. If you want to set it up as a
personal agent, you can either give all
the information about yourself in the
chat, or if you'd rather not type it all
out, link it to your second brain vault
instead. Just give it the path to your
second brain, and tell it to onboard
itself from there. And it learns
everything about you that way. If you
want to set it up for a specific
automation use case, just provide the
docs of the use case, or the general
info about the company that it's being
set up for. But before we move forward,
let's have a word by our sponsor. So, if
you're building with AI tools every day,
but don't fully understand how LLMs,
agents, or protocols like MCP actually
work under the hood, that gap catches up
fast. That's where Educative comes in as
an interactive platform used by over 3
million developers with 2,300 plus
courses where you code in the browser
with no setup, and get AI-powered
feedback on every submission. I'd start
with their Essentials of Large Language
Models course. In 2 hours, it breaks
down how LLMs work from tokenization to
attention mechanisms to RAG. You'll
finish with a real mental model of
what's happening under the hood. From
there, MCP Fundamentals teaches you to
build AI agents using the Model Context
Protocol. Agentic System Design goes
further, multi-agent systems that
reason, plan, and act autonomously. Then
the 16-hour LLM Bootcamp adds hands-on
AWS labs in Bedrock, Sagemaker, and
LangGraph. You'll fine-tune a model,
build multi-agent systems, and ship a
RAG chatbot. You're writing real code
from the very first lesson, not sitting
through tutorials watching someone else
build. Educative has helped more than
10,000 developers land jobs at top tech
companies. Try it free, link in the
description. You can build a collection
of skills for your Hermes agent from the
skill hub. That's their official
marketplace for skills and it has skills
for all kinds of use cases. Hermes also
comes with 90 skills installed by
default. Those pre-installed skills are
actually secure because they are
maintained by the organization itself.
That's a real difference from open claw
skills, which we covered in our previous
video. A huge number of those weren't
safe at all with security issues like
dangerous prompts and scripts that can
literally transfer your data off to some
server. And the skill hub actually runs
a security scan on each skill and
watches for these issues. That way you
can add the skills you want without the
same risk. Just like any other agent,
you can connect any MCP you want to
Hermes. But here's what separates Hermes
from the rest. You can run your own
Hermes setup as an MCP server itself and
connect it to your other agents, letting
them reach Hermes through tools so the
communication goes both ways. Connecting
Hermes to other agents this way fills in
what those agents are missing. An agent
like Claude code on its own doesn't
remember anything about you and its
skills don't fix or improve themselves.
But through this MCP connection, you can
give it access to everything Hermes can
do. It also means you reach every app
you've already connected to Hermes
without wiring each agent up to each app
separately. They just use those apps
through your Hermes setup instead. To
run Hermes as an MCP, you run the Hermes
MCP serve command. There's no output on
the terminal saying the server is up,
but it's actually started running as the
MCP server. To connect it to your agent,
you add the Hermes MCP to the .mcp.json
file and then it's usable. You can set
it at project scope, which means only
the project you're working on gets
access. Or you can add the config to the
root.cloud folder and then the Hermes
MCP is available across all your
projects. And speaking of skills, Hermes
comes bundled with a Claude code skill
which has guidance on how to use Claude
code through the agent. So combined with
the Hermes setup running as an MCP, this
unlocks a lot for us. The Hermes agent
and Claude code together open up a lot
of use cases, especially in businesses
where multiple automations can be set up
to handle repeatable processes. One of
those is connecting Claude code to your
team's Slack workspace. This works
really well because Hermes is basically
an always running agent, while Claude
code is where the actual development
happens. So, we use the Hermes agent to
access the team workspace. Just like
with the Discord setup, we won't walk
through the Slack connection here,
either. But, you'll find the full guide
in our community. In most workspaces,
you could have a dedicated channel for a
project where the whole team discusses
different points about it. What you can
do with the Hermes agent is ask it to
create a cron job that monitors that
specific channel. From the requirements
being discussed there, it builds a PRD
skill that evolves as those requirements
change. Having the PRD as a skill is
really helpful, especially during the
sessions where you're actually
developing the product. Whenever it's
needed, it pulls the relevant parts of
the PRD into the context. So, the
project stays aligned with the original
requirements. The PRD on its own might
work, too. But, for the same reason we
talked about earlier, the agent
sometimes gets confused about what it
needs to pay attention to. A skill gets
called whenever it's needed and stays in
the fresh part of the context window
where the model is actually paying
attention. So, Hermes creates the skill
the way you instructed and runs it every
30 minutes as a cron job. This way,
whenever a requirement change gets
discussed in the channel, it updates the
PRD and the Hermes agent makes sure
those changes flow both ways. So, the
skill created inside your project stays
updated, too. At this point, you might
be thinking, "Since we already have an
MCP connected for the Hermes agent, why
not just use a tool to pull the
information from that Slack channel and
have the agent act on it?" The reason is
that the Slack MCP has a limitation. It
can't read the entire conversation
history by default. It only reads the
messages it's tagged in, and it won't
pull the full history unless the tagged
message specifically needs that context.
So, setting it up through the Hermes
agent is the better route because it can
sync the information directly from
there. From there, you can also ask it
to implement any feature using Cloud
Code in non-interactive mode directly
through the Hermes agent channels. It
loads that Cloud Code skill we talked
about earlier, then launches Cloud Code
and uses it to build the feature. Also,
if you are enjoying our content,
consider pressing the hype button
because it helps us create more content
like this and reach out to more people.
You can [snorts] also bolt Hermes onto a
deployed app, whether you're building it
for yourself or for a client. So, if you
have a deployed app built with Cloud
Code, you can create skills for
monitoring and health checks that guide
the agent on how to monitor the running
app because Cloud Code has the best
context on what the app actually needs.
Then, you import those skills into your
Hermes agent. You can set up a cron job
for that, basically a task that runs on
its own on a schedule, and let the agent
monitor both the hosted app and the
code. We also told it that if it finds
an issue by running the skill and
updates it, it should sync those skills
back to the local project. So, Cloud
Code has context on them, too. So, this
is how its self-evolving skills help in
setting up a continuous health check
that gets better every time it runs. So,
once you give Hermes the prompt, it sets
up the cron job for you. You can test
run it to see if it's configured
properly. It gives you a report in
whichever channel you set up, and in our
case, it reported in Discord. And with
the MCP configured, you can get those
reports right inside Cloud Code along
with all the suggested fixes from other
team members and implement them directly
in your project. Or, you can push those
fixes yourself or even set up the Hermes
agent to fix the issues it found using
Cloud Code. If you want to found the
next big AI B2B company and automate
everything like we did with Hermes, you
should be in AI Labs Pro. That's where
you'll find the setup guides from this
video along with all the other resources
and goodies we've put together. You'll
also get to meet a bunch of like-minded
nerds, including our team. The link's in
the description, and you can check that
out. That brings us to the end of this
video. If you'd like to support the
channel and help us keep making videos
like this, you can do so by using the
super thanks button below. As always,
thank you for watching and I'll see you
in the next one.